So I want to talk a little bit about how do you determine whether or not your space is good enough to
home share.
This is different than the lecture I did before about whether or not you have the right environment
to participate in or be in being in home sharing.
Before we talked about whether or not your market is strong enough because that is a larger pre-qualify
or then whether or not your space is good enough is similar to my thoughts on whether or not your market
is good enough I think in the case of your space again it's something that you should look at optimistically
in the vast majority of cases.
You can rent out your space and it is actually possible.
I think that in some cases you might need more effort to make it to a point where it's ready to be rented.
But I've rarely seen situations where it's an absolute no you can't run out this space as long as we've
established that there are people looking for spaces in your town and people are actually booking then
it's just a question of what are you going to run out and whether or not you have the correct set up.
And like I said it's not particularly strenuous to meet these requirements.
I think it's very much an oddity when I see a space that cannot be rented out at all.
The first thing I want you to do is imagine just kind of in your head do you want to rent out part of
your space or do you enter the entirety of your space.
Now when you take in consideration with this is that if you're running out part of your space you're
going to be hosting.
You're going to focus more on the experience with the guests.
It's going to be a little bit more active but at the same time you get to live in your apartment while
this is happening so you don't have to relocate or you know have to plan this around the time that you're
gone.
I think it goes without saying that in these types of situations you obviously cannot charge as much.
However you still live in your space so you don't have to incur the cost of finding someone else to
stay.
The flipside of this is well what if you want to rent out your entirety of your space it might be the
case that you travel frequently or you would like to travel more frequently.
It might be the case that you know somewhere where you can stay for free and you can rent out your space
when that's available and pocket the difference.
That's also quite common.
The most common combination of this that I see are people who are interested in both.
They would like to rent it out while they are there and they'd also like to bring up the entire thing
while they're gone.
Typically Also I'd like to suggest that if you are interested in running the entirety of your apartment
also consider running out a section of your apartment.
And I'll talk about that later in the strategy section but it has to do with the fact that you may not
get a 100 percent fill rates on your entire apartment but to call your apartment is high enough you
can actually make the rate for an individual room high enough to cover your rent expenses or whatever
fixed expenses and still make it worth it to run out the entire place like that where at least you know
then make a decision at the moment whether or not you want to stay.
Now if you're someone that fits into the first category there's a certain set of guidelines that you
should take into consideration when you're thinking about whether or not you can rent out your space
the number one thing I would point out is that you need to take into consideration how you see the interaction
between you and your guests.
Typically when you share a space there is going to be usually limited interaction.
There's a very a larger chunk of interaction when you first meet them and then it tapers off throughout
their stay.
Staying longer than perhaps you'll talk to the Morial have more interactions with them what you want
to consider first and foremost is how do you envision their stay being and I mean that in a sense they're
paying to stay at your apartment.
So there is a certain level of privacy that they're going to expect.
There's a certain level of amenities that they're going to expect and not necessarily just amenities
that are available period amenities that are going to be exclusively theirs.
So we're you're looking at your space say it's a spare bedroom.
Let's say it's a room attached to the side of your house.
What's going to be available to them and what's going to be available on a shared basis if it it's such
the case that they have a room that is separate like an efficiency.
You know they have a separate entrance and they have their own like an efficiency would have it have
their own amenities they have their own sink bathroom so you have enough bathrooms or house you can
assign a bathroom to them.
That's an ideal situation because they can have the privacy that they want but they can also have the
option to interact with the host if they actually decide that that's what they want and it's really
going to depend on the personalities some people are introverted some people are much more extroverted.
Some people do not want to interact as much.
Some people see the interaction of the house as a byproduct of getting a cheaper room whereas other
you know extroverted guests see it as a benefit to getting air B and B and so if they don't have the
interaction they actually see that as a negative.
Typically what I would say is you need to imagine whether or not someone can stay in the section of
your house apartment condo whatever and have the option to engage with the host.
But also the option to not if they don't want to.
So if you think this is a situation where it's ideal in the sense that they can be as reclusive as they
want but also a social as they want.
That I think you're in a good situation.
It gets trickier when you're talking about running out of room in a smaller apartment.
So if you have a one bedroom and you really want to rent it out because you you know you really want
to get rid of your rent payments.
This is a little bit trickier.
I would say and then you know the case that it's a smaller apartment that means more interaction.
That means that you're going to need people who are more social to feel comfortable and if you get the
occasional person who was under the impression that they're going to have some privacy it might be a
little bit harder.
This is the least ideal situation there in one bedroom and you want to give the guests your living room
or your bedroom.
Here's something to take in consideration.
Say you're going to rent out your bedroom and you're going to take the living room.
It's the assumption that you're sharing everything.
We have one bedroom one bathroom and only one kitchen.
That's fine.
But do they have to pass through your living room to get to these amenities.
That makes a huge difference because if they're living in your space and they don't have to walk across
your living room that means they have the choice to not interact with you if they don't want to they
can you know go about their day maybe that a long stressful day and they don't want to talk.
That's something you have to take into consideration.
Can they have the space if they want the space.
So if you're in a situation where it's unavoidable that you both live in the same space without crossing
over each other that's going to limit how many people are going to find this appealing.
Now like I said at the beginning you have to look at this from an optimistic point of view.
I don't think that precludes you from listing your apartment.
What that does is it's going to make it such that you probably have a cap to how much you can charge
for that space.
You're going to have to lower your price.
That's the magic of the system.
If you don't think your space is good enough.
Wow.
There's a way of determining that.
And the price will determine that your space is not nice enough the price will go down until eventually
gets to the point where this is worth that for the person staying one of the things that I'm going to
touch on later in this course is that there's a general kind of rule you'll notice with regards to what
you're charging and the type of person that attracts.
Generally when you charge $50 or less you're going to get the type of person that's going to give you
the benefit the doubt.
They know they're going into a shared space opportunity and they know that this is going to require
interaction because they're getting a deal and they're fine with that they're fine with things not working
perfectly fine.
So if you're in a situation where you are a one bedroom and you want to run out your side bedroom it's
going to be tough for you to break out of that first category of the $50 or less because you're going
to need that people who are flexible who are perfectly fine with the fact that this is not an ideal
situation.
Generally when you start charging more like $100 people are going to start expecting amenities that's
going to be the point at which shared amenities are no longer acceptable.
That might be a limitation on your space.
So these are things you want to take into consideration.
In general though and I think this applies to running out one side space versus the entire apartment
you want to look at basic things like what's the quality of your furnishings in your apartment.
Are they things you found on Craigslist that have holes in them and could possibly be infested.
You know I think college students call that eclectic.
Or is it the case that you actually have some high quality goods inside your apartment.
How new are your fixtures do you have anything that is obviously broken.
You have a hole in your wall.
Do you have a faucet that doesn't work.
Do you have a bathroom that doesn't work are there basic things like that that are not working.
If that's the case you might want to look into fixing those.
Otherwise I think you're still going to hit a cap on how much you can charge.
The beauty of Air B and B and I talked about this in the previous lecture was that there's the minimum
assumption of quality.
And so since there is no minimum assumption of quality here and mintage in the last lecture FBN beers
have a much lower expectation.
And if you have a place that's unfinished that you think would be crazy to charge for.
Chances are if you lower the price enough you'll find people who are willing to do that because they
come to Air B and B you're going to get people who are more willing to look the other way and give you
the minute that now and just now that they're getting a deal and that's how they preface this entire
experience is is a deal.
I'm perfectly fine with the fact that I might get splinters when I walk across the unfinished wooden
floors.
Just look at the general status of things.
One of the things I've noticed is how cluttered is your space.
A lot of people you know you don't run out your home but you've lived in it for 25 30 years.
You can always take that stuff move it off to the side minimize how much stuff you have that if it's
the case that you're running out an apartment you have dogs.
You cannot separate the dog care from every piece of your apartment slash house that might be a little
bit trickier.
Again every time I say this is a bad thing or it's trickier it's just reflected in your price.
So I'm just trying to make you understand the more of the things you correct the higher you can charge
the more money you can make the more choosy can get with guests the more opportunities you have to travel
eccentric cetera back to clutter.
When I'm talking about clutter I mean you know family photo albums and things across the entire place
that make it look more like a residence and less like a place that you pay to stay at your hotel.
I'm not saying that you have to depersonalize every single aspect of your apartment but it does help
to minimize some of these things or at least you know keep it to a reasonable level.
I have stayed in urban bees that are overwhelmingly the case that every single trinket every single
what we call vignettes of photography are dedicated to the people who live there.
That is a bit strange especially when you rent the entire apartment now when you're running out your
entire PO Moore apartment.
There are different guidelines that you're going to want to go by what I was saying about broken fixtures
unfinished parts of your apartment on clutter you know cluttered and that absolutely applies but with
entire homes and apartments you don't have to take into consideration things like the availability of
privacy.
That's not something you have to worry about because they're running the entire space they're going
to have privacy.
Now you have to think about it when your own apartment the entire space and think about it from the
reverse angle actually.
What about the privacy of your neighbors.
Are you running this out in an apartment complex apartment complexes are less ideal in the sense that
they are less genuine they're less unique.
Typically they do feel almost two hotel ish for someone to be interested in it but also the density
of the residence often creates problems because if you're actively running it out they are gone a month
and you don't have long term rentals you have two day Reynolds three day rentals.
Not only do you might have a problem with your H-2A or homeowner's association you might also have a
problem with your neighbors.
People don't like living next to transient hotels.
Do you have to take that in consideration that he's going to be a lot of footwork and a lot of people
coming in and a lot of people coming out.
I think people have a tendency to overestimate this as a problem.
People have a tendency to think that because people are running the space coming in and coming out that
they're gonna be making a lot of noise if you're renting out a one bedroom in an apartment complex.
First of all you obviously do want to check with your neighbors and this is fine but at the same time
it depends on the frequency at which you're renting it out.
It depends on how long the length of stay is.
And it also just depends on the people you're getting.
The vast majority of tourists are going to come in and out once a day and it's not going to be any more
disruptive than if you're doing it yourself or you had friends over so it's not an increase in disruption
to the other person.
There is an exception to this if you are running out a two or three bedroom and you're focusing on groups
and you're letting groups come in.
Now that could actually be obnoxious especially if you're running it out to people of the aides that
might be going out on weekends coming back drunk again if you're the type of person who has lots of
friends and you do that anyway.
That's not going to be a huge difference but it is worth considering how close you live next to your
neighbors and how many shared spaces you have.
If you're running something like a tenant in common that may be something to consider.
Right.
You might have to share a backyard or share the ping pong table or a swimming pool just things that
take into consideration.
Typically I don't think it's as big of a problem if you do enough.
Greening of your the inquiries for people to stay.
So if you look for people who look like they have are respectable or have a predictable schedule they're
not going to be creating a problem then you should be fine although you should always kind of plan for
the worse it could be the case and you do get some bad apples.
A lot of the people coming through Airbnb don't have reviews yet so you should know that that could
happen.
Other things to consider when running out a full apartment and as well as an apartment that you share
location how easy is it to find your apartment.
How close are you to the mass transit.
How convenient is it to get around.
Where are the points of interest if you're in a tourist destination.
You can create a rubric out of this and I might make that as a as an addendum to this course and I can
put it on there and you guys can grade your spaces but these are all things that just get reflected
in the price.
The more things you have going for you the more you can charge the more money you're going to make.
But if you don't have a lot of things going for you it is long as you're not having a deal breaker.
I think that you are still going to be able to rent it out.
It's just that you're gonna have to experiment more with price.
You'll still be able to make money.
You might have to rent it out more often to meet your rent or meet whatever profit goals you have.
A good way of judging your space if you're trying to rent out a full apartment full home is by thinking
about your space.
Imagine it completely uncluttered completely clean.
And now imagine if you yourself did not live there and then imagine whether or not you could see this
place you're staying in as an alternative to renting a hotel.
That's the way I like to think about it.
If you could legitimately see yourself saying yes I would stay here over a hotel leave out the price
equation because as long as you get yourself saying yes then it's definitely rentable.
Then the question is would you say to yourself after that.
Yes it is cheaper than a hotel.
Or do you see yourself saying after that yeah I could do this over a hotel now in general Arab bees
are much more attractive than hotels.
I mean it's not for everyone but the majority of people.
If everything else was the same would probably pick a apartment that has more character that has more
thought put into it that has more amenities it has a kitchen you know and it's has actual some uniqueness
to it.
Most people would do that.
You're always going to get that bump.
So as long as you can get yourself to the point you'd say yeah.
Someone who would pay to stay here and I could set it up such that someone would come here and pay to
stay here.
Then you're in a very good situation.
And again price will always determine the quality and over time you can get better at the hosting experience
better at the decoration and you can start charging more.
Another way I think that would help you look at this is go to the front of your apartment and if you're
thinking about running on a single room go into that one specific room and imagine just being there
had you rented that space.
And I think this helps people grasp the concept of yes people do pay to live here and it's not like
you're running it out to your friend who's just there on the couch.
Your friend doesn't care if there's newspapers on the table your friend doesn't care if you know your
dogs knocked over the food ball and just strung water all over the apartment they don't care because
it's free.
But now imagine you live there you don't know the other person.
Is this something that you could foresee paying for.
Typically yes shelter always has a value to it.
It's just a question of how much she can charge whether or not that amount is going to be worth it for
you.
Again the vast majority of cases.
Yeah it's definitely worth it.
But I think if you walk yourself through your apartment and imagine you are a renter that would definitely
help because you can see the experience.
You live in a big apartment building and you have to walk.
There's some really ugly flights of stairs to go through an ugly hallway with like rats running across
it to get to a door that barely works and then you get in the apartment that might be a problem.
You know that might preclude how much you can charge for it.
You might be stuck in that $50 range.
We previously talked about these are things that take into consideration you know if you have your own
apartment your own home you have your own park and you live near lots of points of interest.
Could you see a family parking in your garage staying in your home and then actually going out and using
as a base to explore her city.
Chances are if you live there it's probably a decent location.
It's not a huge difference between the reasons why people who work in a city pick their location.
Reasons why tourists pick it.
I live in Fisherman's Wharf of San Francisco which is the touristy area ends up being perfectly fine
we're close to everybody else.
Many other people live in the same area and commute to work.
Same value system.
In my opinion.
So yes take into consideration all of these things that I've said I don't think there's a definitive
answer to yes or no it's a spectrum.
If you have a lot of things going for you like I said you're trying to rent out a private space and
your space is very private man they have their own amenities say you have a two bedroom two bath you
can rent out a bedroom plus a bath.
That's going to make a big difference in how much you can charge.
That's going to make a big difference in how it work that this is for you.
At the end of the course you're going to see a list of tax that's going to include all of the main talking
points from every single lecture and I'll include thing on there as a kind of a question set.
You can read off and will say things we talked about all your furnishings about the finish of your apartment
clutter things like that and you can use that as kind of a way to gauge whether or not you're ready
to rent out your space or whether or not there is something that is a deal breaker in terms of how much
you can rent out your space more and whether or not you can rent it out period.
Like always post any questions in the group discussion I will do my best to help you out to turn in
when they're in your space is ready.
It's very subjective.
It's not something that is purely set in stone.
There's no yes no for every single issue that could arise it's also something that you can figure out
over time trial and error.
Chances are if you're comfortable with your space someone else can be comfortable with your space and
you can get it to the point where they'll rent it out for money.
Just be positive.
Be optimistic.
It's definitely something that's worthwhile doing.